# Create and Host your own Website
Creating and hosting your own website can often be intimidating and inaccessible due to paywalls or inexperience with coding.

Sites like SquareSpace will charge you $144/year and sites like GoDaddy will charge you $15/year with pricey add-ons that should really just come with owning the website. Additionally, many of the features they do provide are functionally useless for those aiming to host something simple like a static portfolio website. For those willing to invest an extra hour of their time, there IS an easier and cheaper way that will give them full control over their website and its contents.

This workshop will cover using Hugo to generate professional-looking HTML content from easy-to-write yaml files and using GitHub + Google Domains to host your website content for $0-12 per year! 

Students should come with their own laptop pre-installed with git. No prior knowledge required, but a basic understanding of Git will help.

Examples of deliverables possible through the methods taught here:

* [chrischoy.net](http://www.chrischoy.net)
* [uchicagowintercare.com](http://www.uchicagowintercare.com)
* [giveusyourpassword.com](http://www.giveusyourpassword.com)

**DISCLAIMER**: there are many, many, many ways to go about creating and hosting your own website outside of the ones mentioned here. What will be taught here is just what I've personally found to work well.

## Background

Broadly, hosting your own website requires 3 key elements:

1. **HTML and CSS files** that comprise the actual page content
2. **Server** to host those files on
3. **Domain Name** that will direct users to your site

The price you pay 3rd party sites is for them to bundle these elements up for you. We, however, will be keeping those parts separate to give us greater control and affordability. The parts will be handled as such:

1. **HTML and CSS files** will be either manually written or generated by **Hugo**, a free third-party software for generating website files from easy-to-edit yaml files.
2. **Server** hosting will be done by GitHub for free
3. **Domain Name** will be purchased through GoogleDomains

## Setting up the GitHub Repo

GitHub is a fantastic means for hosting code with good version control. Additionally, GitHub even supports hosting your own website files. For free, each account is given [[username]].github.io as a url they can host on.

Here, we'll create a repository with a simple index.html file to start with.

1. Create a new repository

## Setting up your Domain Name


## Using Hugo
